README.md, before:

# Simple Shell !

## Welcome to the Simple Shell project !

This project is part of my curriculum at Holberton School. It is the second major group project, and also the final project of the first trimester.
Carried out in collaboration with two other students, the goal was to build our own Unix command-line interpreter, called Simple Shell.
The work had to follow strict technical guidelines, including rules on coding style, modularity, and performance. All the requirements and constraints are detailed in the following sections of this README.

## Technical requirements and constraints

- Allowed editors: vi, vim, emacs
- All your files will be compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using gcc, using the options -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89
- All your files should end with a new line
- A README.md file, at the root of the folder of the project is mandatory
- Your code should use the Betty style. It will be checked using betty-style.pl and betty-doc.pl
- Your shell should not have any memory leaks
- No more than 5 functions per file
- All your header files should be include guarded
- Use system calls only when you need to (why?)

### Github

There should be one project repository per group. If you clone/fork/whatever a project repository with the same name before the second deadline, you risk a 0% score.

## More Info

### Output

- Unless specified otherwise, your program must have the exact same output as sh (/bin/sh) as well as the exact same error output.
- The only difference is when you print an error, the name of the program must be equivalent to your argv[0] (See below)  

Example of error with sh:

```c
julien@ubuntu:/# echo "qwerty" | /bin/sh
/bin/sh: 1: qwerty: not found
julien@ubuntu:/# echo "qwerty" | /bin/../bin/sh
/bin/../bin/sh: 1: qwerty: not foun
```

Same error with your program hsh:

```c

julien@ubuntu:/# echo "qwerty" | ./hsh
./hsh: 1: qwerty: not found
julien@ubuntu:/# echo "qwerty" | ./././hsh
./././hsh: 1: qwerty: not found

```

## List of allowed functions and system calls+

```c

all functions from string.h
access (man 2 access)
chdir (man 2 chdir)
close (man 2 close)
closedir (man 3 closedir)
execve (man 2 execve)
exit (man 3 exit)
_exit (man 2 _exit)
fflush (man 3 fflush)
fork (man 2 fork)
free (man 3 free)
getcwd (man 3 getcwd)
getline (man 3 getline)
getpid (man 2 getpid)
isatty (man 3 isatty)
kill (man 2 kill)
malloc (man 3 malloc)
open (man 2 open)
opendir (man 3 opendir)
perror (man 3 perror)
printf (man 3 printf)
fprintf (man 3 fprintf)
vfprintf (man 3 vfprintf)
sprintf (man 3 sprintf)
putchar (man 3 putchar)
read (man 2 read)
readdir (man 3 readdir)
signal (man 2 signal)
stat (__xstat) (man 2 stat)
lstat (__lxstat) (man 2 lstat)
fstat (__fxstat) (man 2 fstat)
strtok (man 3 strtok)
wait (man 2 wait)
waitpid (man 2 waitpid)
wait3 (man 2 wait3)
wait4 (man 2 wait4)
write (man 2 write)

```

### Compilation

- Your code will be compiled this way:

```c

$ gcc -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89 -Wno-format *.c

```

### Testing

Your shell should work like this in interactive mode:

```c

julien@ubuntu:/# ./hsh
($) /bin/ls
hsh main.c shell.c
($)
($) exit
julien@ubuntu:/#

```

But also in non-interactive mode:

```c

julien@ubuntu:/# echo "/bin/ls" | ./hsh
hsh main.c shell.c test_ls_2
julien@ubuntu:/# cat test_ls_2
/bin/ls
/bin/ls
julien@ubuntu:/# cat test_ls_2 | ./hsh
hsh main.c shell.c test_ls_2
hsh main.c shell.c test_ls_2
julien@ubuntu:/#

```

### Checks

The Checker will be released at the end of the project (1-2 days before the deadline). We strongly encourage the entire class to work together to create a suite of checks covering both regular tests and edge cases for each task. See task `8. Test suite`.

After the deadline, you will need to fork the repository if it’s not on your Github account to be able to be corrected by the checker.

## Description of Simple shell

## The man page

## The Flowchart of Simple Shell

## File organisation

`builtin_utils.c`:

`core_shell.c`:

`env_utils.c`:

`execute_command.c`:

`input_utils.c`:

`main.h`:

`string_utils.c` & `string_utils2.c`:

## Main Functions & Return Values

## Memory Leak Testing with Valgrind

## Tests

## Examples

## Output:

## How to contribute

## Authors

[Benjamin Estrada](https://github.com/Aluranae)  
[Nawfel](https://github.com/nawfel83)  
[Warren](https://github.com/Warrre)

Commit message:

Update README.md to enhance navigation structure and improve organization

README.md, after:

# Simple Shell !

## Welcome to the Simple Shell project !

This project is part of my curriculum at Holberton School. It is the second major group project, and also the final project of the first trimester.
Carried out in collaboration with two other students, the goal was to build our own Unix command-line interpreter, called Simple Shell.
The work had to follow strict technical guidelines, including rules on coding style, modularity, and performance. All the requirements and constraints are detailed in the following sections of this README.

## Navigation

- [Technical requirements and constraints](#technical-requirements-and-constraints)
- [Description of Simple Shell](#description-of-simple-shell)
- [The man page](#the-man-page)
- [The Flowchart of Simple Shell](#the-flowchart-of-simple-shell)
- [File organisation](#file-organisation)
- [Main Functions & Return Values](#main-functions--return-values)
- [Memory Leak Testing with Valgrind](#memory-leak-testing-with-valgrind)
- [Tests](#tests)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [How to contribute](#-how-to-contribute)
- [Authors](#authors)

## Technical requirements and constraints

- Allowed editors: vi, vim, emacs
- All your files will be compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using gcc, using the options -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89
- All your files should end with a new line
- A README.md file, at the root of the folder of the project is mandatory
- Your code should use the Betty style. It will be checked using betty-style.pl and betty-doc.pl
- Your shell should not have any memory leaks
- No more than 5 functions per file
- All your header files should be include guarded
- Use system calls only when you need to (why?)

### Github

There should be one project repository per group. If you clone/fork/whatever a project repository with the same name before the second deadline, you risk a 0% score.

## More Info

### Output

- Unless specified otherwise, your program must have the exact same output as sh (/bin/sh) as well as the exact same error output.
- The only difference is when you print an error, the name of the program must be equivalent to your argv[0] (See below)  

Example of error with sh:

```c
julien@ubuntu:/# echo "qwerty" | /bin/sh
/bin/sh: 1: qwerty: not found
julien@ubuntu:/# echo "qwerty" | /bin/../bin/sh
/bin/../bin/sh: 1: qwerty: not foun
```

Same error with your program hsh:

```c

julien@ubuntu:/# echo "qwerty" | ./hsh
./hsh: 1: qwerty: not found
julien@ubuntu:/# echo "qwerty" | ./././hsh
./././hsh: 1: qwerty: not found

```

## List of allowed functions and system calls+

```c

all functions from string.h
access (man 2 access)
chdir (man 2 chdir)
close (man 2 close)
closedir (man 3 closedir)
execve (man 2 execve)
exit (man 3 exit)
_exit (man 2 _exit)
fflush (man 3 fflush)
fork (man 2 fork)
free (man 3 free)
getcwd (man 3 getcwd)
getline (man 3 getline)
getpid (man 2 getpid)
isatty (man 3 isatty)
kill (man 2 kill)
malloc (man 3 malloc)
open (man 2 open)
opendir (man 3 opendir)
perror (man 3 perror)
printf (man 3 printf)
fprintf (man 3 fprintf)
vfprintf (man 3 vfprintf)
sprintf (man 3 sprintf)
putchar (man 3 putchar)
read (man 2 read)
readdir (man 3 readdir)
signal (man 2 signal)
stat (__xstat) (man 2 stat)
lstat (__lxstat) (man 2 lstat)
fstat (__fxstat) (man 2 fstat)
strtok (man 3 strtok)
wait (man 2 wait)
waitpid (man 2 waitpid)
wait3 (man 2 wait3)
wait4 (man 2 wait4)
write (man 2 write)

```

### Compilation

- Your code will be compiled this way:

```c

$ gcc -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89 -Wno-format *.c

```

### Testing

Your shell should work like this in interactive mode:

```c

julien@ubuntu:/# ./hsh
($) /bin/ls
hsh main.c shell.c
($)
($) exit
julien@ubuntu:/#

```

But also in non-interactive mode:

```c

julien@ubuntu:/# echo "/bin/ls" | ./hsh
hsh main.c shell.c test_ls_2
julien@ubuntu:/# cat test_ls_2
/bin/ls
/bin/ls
julien@ubuntu:/# cat test_ls_2 | ./hsh
hsh main.c shell.c test_ls_2
hsh main.c shell.c test_ls_2
julien@ubuntu:/#

```

### Checks

The Checker will be released at the end of the project (1-2 days before the deadline). We strongly encourage the entire class to work together to create a suite of checks covering both regular tests and edge cases for each task. See task `8. Test suite`.

After the deadline, you will need to fork the repository if it’s not on your Github account to be able to be corrected by the checker.

## Description of Simple shell

## The man page

## The Flowchart of Simple Shell

## File organisation

`builtin_utils.c`:

`core_shell.c`:

`env_utils.c`:

`execute_command.c`:

`input_utils.c`:

`main.h`:

`string_utils.c` & `string_utils2.c`:

## Main Functions & Return Values

## Memory Leak Testing with Valgrind

## Tests

## Examples

## How to contribute

## Authors

[Benjamin Estrada](https://github.com/Aluranae)  
[Nawfel](https://github.com/nawfel83)  
[Warren](https://github.com/Warrre)
